You can choose between several different difficulties in Against The Storm. This page summaries their differences.

=== Base Difficulties ===
{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center;"
|-
! rowspan="2" | Name
! rowspan="2" | Embarkation Point
! colspan="2" | Number of Forest Mysteries
! rowspan="2" | Hostility Multiplier
! rowspan="2" | Max Hostility
|-
| Negative
| Positive
|-
| Settler
| 0 || 1 || 2 || x1 || 6
|-
| Pioneer 
| -1 || 3 || 2 || x1.5 || 9
|-
| Veteran || -2 || 4 || 1 || x2 || 16
|-
| Viceroy
| -2 || 4 || 1 || x3 || 31
|}

=== Prestige Difficulties ===
# +4 Reputation needed to win.
# Cyst generation rate is doubled and cysts corrupt the hearth 50% faster.
# Blueprint rerolls cost 10 {{amber}} more.
# Villagers leave twice as fast when at low resolve.
# Buildings require 50% more materials. (rounded up)
# Villagers have a 50% chance to eat twice as much.
# Villagers have a 50% chance to consume twice as much luxury goods.
# Villagers work 33% slower on Glade Events.
# All your goods are worth 50% less to traders.
# Cyst generation rate is increased by 150% and cysts corrupt the hearth 100% quicker than normal.
# You get more difficult orders.
# You get 2 fewer Blueprint choices.
# You get 2 fewer Cornerstone choices.
# Impatience falls by 0.5 points less for every Reputation Point you gain.
# Storm season lasts twice as long.
# You start with 2 initial blueprints. (down from 3)
# Villagers get twice as much resolve penalty from starving.
# Sacrificed resources burn 35% quicker.
# You must pay 5 {{amber}} for each discovered glade, or 2 villagers will leave.
# Losing villagers will add 0.5 more Impatience.